README.md, before:

# GuestViewer

A Minecraft plugin that restricts non-whitelisted players to spectator mode with movement limitations.

![Build Status](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)

## Download

### Stable Version
**[Download Latest Stable Version](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/releases)**

### Bleeding Edge Version
**[Download Latest Bleeding Edge Version](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/actions/workflows/build.yml)**
⚠️ You will need to be logged into GitHub to download artifacts from GitHub Actions.

## Server Compatibility

- Tested and working on Minecraft 1.21.x
- Should work on Paper/Spigot servers

## Features

- Permission-based whitelist system - players without the `guestviewer.bypass` permission are automatically set to spectator mode
- Players with the `guestviewer.bypass` permission are automatically set to survival mode
- Spectators can only move within 100 blocks of the player they're spectating
- Permission-based free roaming near world spawn
- Configurable welcome messages for both regular players and spectators
- Configurable join/leave broadcast messages for both regular players and spectators
- Simple and lightweight

## Installation

1. Download the latest release from the link above
2. Place the JAR file in your server's `plugins` directory
3. Restart your server or run `/reload`
4. Configure the plugin as needed (see Configuration section)

## Usage

### Permissions

- `guestviewer.bypass` - Players with this permission play normally (default: op)
- `guestviewer.admin` - Required to use admin commands like reload (default: op)
- `guestviewer.freeroam` - Allows spectators to roam freely within the configured distance of world spawn (default: false)

### Commands

- `/guestviewer` or `/gview` - Displays plugin info
- `/guestviewer reload` or `/gview reload` - Reloads the plugin configuration

## Configuration

The plugin's configuration is stored in `plugins/GuestViewer/config.yml`:

```yaml
# Maximum distance (in blocks) a spectator can move from their target
max-distance: 100

# Messages
messages:
  # Message shown to players when they join and are set to spectator mode
  spectator-join: "&cYou are not whitelisted! You have been set to spectator mode."
  
  # Message shown to players when they join and have the bypass permission
  player-join: "&aWelcome back! You are playing in survival mode."
  
  # Message shown when a spectator tries to move beyond the max distance
  distance-warning: "&cYou cannot move more than 100 blocks from the player you are spectating!"

# Broadcast notifications
broadcast:
  # Whether to broadcast when a player with bypass permission joins
  player-join-enabled: true
  player-join-message: "&e%player% &ahas joined the server."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a player with bypass permission leaves
  player-quit-enabled: true
  player-quit-message: "&e%player% &chas left the server."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a spectator joins
  spectator-join-enabled: true
  spectator-join-message: "&7Guest &e%player% &7has joined as a spectator."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a spectator leaves
  spectator-quit-enabled: true
  spectator-quit-message: "&7Guest &e%player% &7has left the server."

# Allow spectators with the guestviewer.freeroam permission to freely roam
# within max-distance blocks of world spawn
# Both this setting AND the permission are required for free roaming
allow-free-roam: true
```

## How it Works

1. When a player joins, the plugin checks if they have the `guestviewer.bypass` permission
2. If they have the permission, they're set to survival mode
3. If they don't have the permission, they're set to spectator mode
4. Spectators are restricted to a 100-block radius (configurable) around the player they're spectating
5. Spectators with the `guestviewer.freeroam` permission can move within the configured radius of world spawn
6. If they try to move beyond allowed boundaries, they're teleported back

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.

## License

This plugin is released under the MIT License.

## Development

### Building from Source

The project uses Maven for build automation. To build from source:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

The built jar file will be in the `target` directory.

### Continuous Integration

This project uses GitHub Actions to automatically build the plugin. The workflow:
- Builds the plugin on every push and pull request to main/master branches
- Uses JDK 21 for compilation
- Creates artifacts that can be downloaded from the Actions tab

Commit message:

Changes to freeroamlogic prevent chat for guests

README.md, after:

# GuestViewer

A Minecraft plugin that restricts non-whitelisted players to spectator mode with movement limitations.

![Build Status](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)

## Download

### Stable Version
**[Download Latest Stable Version](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/releases)**

### Bleeding Edge Version
**[Download Latest Bleeding Edge Version](https://github.com/nfacha/GuestViewer/actions/workflows/build.yml)**
⚠️ You will need to be logged into GitHub to download artifacts from GitHub Actions.

## Server Compatibility

- Tested and working on Minecraft 1.21.x
- Should work on Paper/Spigot servers

## Features

- Permission-based whitelist system - players without the `guestviewer.bypass` permission are automatically set to spectator mode
- Players with the `guestviewer.bypass` permission are automatically set to survival mode
- Spectators can only move within 100 blocks of the player they're spectating
- Permission-based free roaming near world spawn (`guestviewer.freeroam`)
- Chat restriction for spectators unless they have the `guestviewer.chat` permission
- Configurable welcome messages for both regular players and spectators
- Configurable join/leave broadcast messages for both regular players and spectators
- Simple and lightweight

## Installation

1. Download the latest release from the link above
2. Place the JAR file in your server's `plugins` directory
3. Restart your server or run `/reload`
4. Configure the plugin as needed (see Configuration section)

## Usage

### Permissions

- `guestviewer.bypass` - Players with this permission play normally (default: op)
- `guestviewer.admin` - Required to use admin commands like reload (default: op)
- `guestviewer.freeroam` - Allows spectators to roam freely within the configured distance of world spawn (default: false)
- `guestviewer.chat` - Allows spectators to use the chat (default: false)

### Commands

- `/guestviewer` or `/gview` - Displays plugin info
- `/guestviewer reload` or `/gview reload` - Reloads the plugin configuration

## Configuration

The plugin's configuration is stored in `plugins/GuestViewer/config.yml`:

```yaml
# Maximum distance (in blocks) a spectator can move from their target
max-distance: 100

# Messages
messages:
  # Message shown to players when they join and are set to spectator mode
  spectator-join: "&cYou are not whitelisted! You have been set to spectator mode."
  
  # Message shown to players when they join and have the bypass permission
  player-join: "&aWelcome back! You are playing in survival mode."
  
  # Message shown when a spectator tries to move beyond the max distance
  distance-warning: "&cYou cannot move more than 100 blocks from the player you are spectating!"
  
  # Message shown when a spectator without chat permission tries to chat
  chat-restricted: "&cYou don't have permission to chat. You are in spectator mode."

# Chat settings
chat:
  # Whether to restrict chat for spectators without permission
  restrict-spectator-chat: true

# Broadcast notifications
broadcast:
  # Whether to broadcast when a player with bypass permission joins
  player-join-enabled: true
  player-join-message: "&e%player% &ahas joined the server."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a player with bypass permission leaves
  player-quit-enabled: true
  player-quit-message: "&e%player% &chas left the server."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a spectator joins
  spectator-join-enabled: true
  spectator-join-message: "&7Guest &e%player% &7has joined as a spectator."
  
  # Whether to broadcast when a spectator leaves
  spectator-quit-enabled: true
  spectator-quit-message: "&7Guest &e%player% &7has left the server."
```

## How it Works

1. When a player joins, the plugin checks if they have the `guestviewer.bypass` permission
2. If they have the permission, they're set to survival mode
3. If they don't have the permission, they're set to spectator mode
4. Spectators are restricted to a 100-block radius (configurable) around the player they're spectating
5. Spectators with the `guestviewer.freeroam` permission can move within the configured radius of world spawn
6. Spectators without the `guestviewer.chat` permission cannot use the chat
7. If they try to move beyond allowed boundaries, they're teleported back

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions, please open an issue on the GitHub repository.

## License

This plugin is released under the MIT License.

## Development

### Building from Source

The project uses Maven for build automation. To build from source:

```bash
mvn clean package
```

The built jar file will be in the `target` directory.

### Continuous Integration

This project uses GitHub Actions to automatically build the plugin. The workflow:
- Builds the plugin on every push and pull request to main/master branches
- Uses JDK 21 for compilation
- Creates artifacts that can be downloaded from the Actions tab
